# MoS2 Raman Processing
Quick Python implementation for analyzing Raman text map collected from Nanophoton Raman 11.

# Why do I need to use Raman analysis for MoS2?
Raman is a quick, versatile and non-destructive method to measure material properties, include strain, doping, defects, magnetic order, etc. See more at Michail, Antonios, et al. "Optical detection of strain and doping inhomogeneities in single layer MoS2." Applied Physics Letters 108.17 (2016).

# Why should I use this code instead of the native peak analysis function in Nanaophoton software?
These are multiple reasons:
- The peak fitting algorithm does not offer much controllability.
- The peak fitting function has performance issue once the dataset is large. It may even crash once the scan pixel number > 15000.
- The output result is in a format (encrypted `.ids` file) only readble by a private, commercial software of Nanophoton company, and not openable on any other computers without commercial authorization of Nanophoton company.
- When there are multiple Raman imaging datasets to be analyzed, the peak fitting function requires the user to do peak fittin gone by one. This is slow and likely to cause errors. This code is based on `Python` so the user can automate the whole process.

# Important note
- **This script is designed for analyzing MoS_2 Raman data.** Raman analysis of other 2D materials, such as graphene and WSe_2 is currently not supported.
  - If I receive requests, I will work on a broader version of this script to analyze multiple kinds of 2D materials.
- This script is designed for mapping data generated by Nanophoton Raman spectrum. It may need tweaking data collected from other systems (e.g., Renishaw).
- Current no PL spectra analysis support.

# I am using Nanophoton Raman and has finished a scan. How to obtain txt data file?
In the computer with which the data is collected, open the `.npi2` file in Nanophoton Viewer and in the dropdown menu of `File`, choose `save as text maps`. There may be several warnings, choose ignore and go ahead to save.

# Libraries needed:
`Numpy` and `Pandas`. Some intrinic Python libraries are also called, such as `os` and `partial`.

# Highlight
- Fast peak fitting: supports **multi-processing** to parallelly fitting the data.
  - For smaller datasets, this code has similar speed when compared with Nanophoton's native peak fit API.
  - For larger datasets (more than 10000 spectrums): this code runs 10 times faster.
- Full controllability: this code provides much more freedom in tuning almost any parameters during peak fitting. These tunable parameters include: peak position, peak intensity, and peak width. The code accepts minimum, maximum, and initial value for each parameter.
- Easy to export result: the output of a given image Raman dataset is returned as a `Numpy` array containing peak position, peak intensity and peak width. This code also provide an individual class to save all results.
  
# Future plans
- Implement PL fitting functionality.
- Implement Raman analysis for other 2D TMDs and graphene.
- Finnaly, this code snippet should turn into a fully functional `Python` package.

# Questions and/or comments?
Please contact me! 

Yue Zhang

Department of Mechanical Science and Engnineering

University of Illinois Urbana Champaign

Urbana, IL 61801 


Office: MRL434, Material Research Lab, UIUC

Email: yuez11@illinois.edu
